>> Woodruff: A CAR BOMB RIPPED
THROUGH THE HEART OF LEBANON'S
CAPITAL TODAY.
AMONG THOSE KILLED:
A PROMINENT PRO-WESTERN
POLITICIAN.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD: ONE OF AFRICA'S
BIGGEST MUSIC STARS BLENDS
SOUNDS AND LANGUAGES FROM AROUND
THE WORLD.
>> I DON'T TRY TO MIX THINGS
BECAUSE I WANT TO MAKE A MIX,
BUT I AM THE MIX.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE YEAR'S
POLITICAL NEWS.
>> Woodruff: THE GIANT RETAILER
TARGET CONFIRMED TODAY THAT
HACKERS STOLE ENCRYPTED PIN
NUMBERS DURING A MAJOR DATA
BREACH THAT BEGAN AT
THANKSGIVING.
SOME 40 MILLION ACCOUNTS ARE
POTENTIALLY AFFECTED.
TARGET SAID IT BELIEVES THE
ENCRYPTION WILL KEEP THE
PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS
SAFE.
WE GET MORE NOW FROM JIM FINKLE
OF THE REUTERS NEWS SERVICE IN
BOSTON.
>> Woodruff: JIM FINKLE,
WELCOME.
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT IS THE
RISK WITH THE THEFT OF THESE
PIN NUMBERS, HOW IS THAT
DIFFERENT FROM LOSING OTHER
CREDIT INFORMATION.
>> YOU KNOW, JUDY, THERE MAY
ACTUALLY BE NO ADDITIONAL
RISK BECAUSE AS YOU
MENTIONED THE NUMBERS ARE
ENCRYPTED.
THE ENCRYPTION ALGORITHMS
THAT THEY USE ARE SO
SOPHISTICATED THAT NOBODY
CAN BREAK THEM.
THE ISSUE HERE I THINK THAT
THIS HIGHLIGHTS IS A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
IT TARGET-- TARGET
ORIGINALLY GAVE US THE
IMPRESSION THAT PINS WERE
NOT TAKEN, ENCRYPTED OR NOT
SO THAT SUGGESTS THAT EITHER
THEY DIDN'T HAVE A HANDLE AS
TO WHAT HAPPENED OR THEY
WEREN'T BEING COMPLETELY
FORTHRIGHT.
>> AND WHY WOULD THAT BE?
>> I CAN THINK THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF REASONS.
FIRST OF ALL IT IS VERY
DIFFICULT TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
HAPPENED IN A BREACH OF THIS
SIZE.
BUT IN TERMS OF NOT BEING
FORTHRIGHT, YOU KNOW, IT WAS
THE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY SEASON
AND I THINK THEY WANTED TO
KEEP THEIR-- THEY DIDN'T
WANT TO ALARM CUSTOMERS.
THEY WORRIED ABOUT POTENTIAL
LITIGATION.
AND THEY ALSO WORRIED ABOUT
REGULATORY AND CONGRESSIONAL
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> Woodruff: AND THERE IS
STILL OTHER INFORMATION,
THOUGH, THAT WAS STOLEN IN
ADDITION TO THESE PIN
NUMBERS THAT IS OUT THERE.
>> YEAH, SURE, ALL THE
INFORMATION ON THE MAGNETIC
STRIPE ON THE BACK OF YOUR
CREDIT CARD WAS STOLEN.
AND THAT CAN BE USED TO
CREATE FAKE CREDIT CARDS.
NOW IT'S POSSIBLE THAT YOU
KNOW SOME PEOPLE'S CREDIT
NOT CREDIT CARD BANK
ACCOUNTS HAVE BEEN DRAINED
AND WE'RE STILL TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW THAT
HAPPENED.
IT MAY BE THAT THEY GOT THE
PIN NUMBERS ANOTHER WAY.
WITH A PIN NUMBER YOU CAN
ACCESS SOMEBODY'S BANK
ACCOUNT.
SO YOU KNOW WHAT I WAS
TALKING ABOUT AT THE
BEGINNING ABOUT THE NOT
HAVING ALL THE INFORMATION,
ABOUT THEM NOT BEING
FORTHRIGHT, WE STILL HAVE TO
FIND OUT WHAT'S GOING ON
WITH THAT.
>> AND JUST QUICKLY WHAT
SHOULD TARGET CUSTOMERS BE
DOING RIGHT NOW?
>> IF YOU'VE GOTTEN
NOTIFICATION THAT YOUR BANK
ACCOUNT OR CREDIT CARD WAS
COMPROMISED, I WOULD ASK THE
BANK TO REPLACE IT.
SOME OF THEM ARE SAYING
THAT'S NECESSARY BUT I'VE
BEEN TOLD BY EVERYBODY WHO
IS KNOWLEDGEABLE THAT THAT
IS WHAT YOU SHOULD DO.
>> JIM FINKLE WITH REUTERS,
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY HAS WON A ROUND
IN THE FIGHT OVER SURVEILLANCE.
A FEDERAL DISTRICT JUDGE IN NEW
YORK RULED TODAY THAT BULK
COLLECTION OF PHONE RECORDS IS
LEGAL, IN THE FIGHT AGAINST
TERRORISM.
IN A WRITTEN OPINION, JUDGE
WILLIAM PAULEY SAID, "THIS BLUNT
EARLIER THIS MONTH, A FEDERAL
JUDGE IN WASHINGTON D.C. RULED
THE SURILLAVENCE IS PROBABLY
UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
A POWERFUL CAR BOMB IN BEIRUT,
LEBANOKILLN ED SIX PEOPLE TODAY,
AND WOUNDED MORE THAN 70.
THE DEAD INCLUDED MOHAMMED
CHATAH, A FORMER AMBASSADOR TO
THE UNITED STATES, AND THE
TARGET OF THE BOMBING.
WLL HE'AVE AN ON-THE-GROUND
REPORT FROM BEIRUT RIGHT AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
IN AFGHANISTAN, A SUICIDE CAR
BOMBER KILLED THREE
INTERNATIONAL TROOPS IN KABUL.
THE TARGET WAS A MILITARY
CONVOY, ABOUT HALF A HALF MILE
FROM A NATO BASE.
SO FAR THIS YEAR, 151 COALITION
OOPTRS HAVE DIED IN AFGHANISTAN,
MOST OF THEM AMERICANS.
THERE WAS TALK TODAY OF ENDING
THE FIGHTING IN SOUTH SUDAN.
THE GOVERNMENT AGREED TO A TRUCE
AFTER A SUMMIT OF EAST AFRICAN
LEADERS IN NAIROBI, KENYA.
BACK IN JUBA, THE U.S. ENVOY TO
SOUTH SUDAN DONALD BOOTH SAID
THE COUNTRY'S PRESIDENT
CONFIRMED IT TO HIM.
>> HE IS MOVING FORWARD TO
ARRANGE A CESSATION OF
HOSTILITIES THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY IN CONJUNCTION WITH
INCREASING THE ABILITY TO MOVE
HUMANITARIAN RELIEF TO THE
PEOPLE OF SOUTH SUDAN WHO HAVE
BEEN TRAPPED BY THE FIGHTING.
>> Woodruff: LATER, THOUGH, THE
REBEL LEADER SAID CONDITIONS FOR
A TRUCE WERE NOT IN PLACE.
HE WAS NOT INVITED TO THE
NAIROBI MEETING.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE UNITED
NATIONS ESTIMATED MORE THAN
120,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED IN SOUTH SUDAN SINCE
ETHNIC FIGHTING BROKE OUT NEARLY
TWO WEEKS AGO.
TWO MORE AFRICAN UNION
PEACEKEEPERS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.
THE SOLDIERS FROM THE REPUBLIC
OF CONGO WERE SHOT DEAD
OVERNIGHT.
SIX PEACEKEEPERS FROM CHAD WERE
KILLED A DAY EARLIER.
THE VIOLENCE IN THE CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC HAS BEEN
BUILDING SINCE A COUP LAST
MARCH.
THE HEAD OF THAILAND'S ARMY
URGED RESTRAINT TODAY BY BOTH
SIDES IN THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL
CRISIS.
AND, HE ISSUED A WARNING.
THE COMMANDER SPOKE A DAY AFTER
POLICE AND PROTESTERS BATTLED IN
THE STREETS IN BANGKOK.
TWO PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND MORE
THAN 140 OTHERS WERE INJURED.
THE ARMY COMMANDER DEPLORED THE
VIOLENCE, AND HE LEFT OPEN THE
POSSIBILITY OF A MILITARY COUP.
>> ( translated ): THE DOOR IS
NEITHER OPEN NOR CLOSED.
ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN, IT ALL
DEPENDS ON THE SITUATION.
THE PEOPLE SHOULD SUPPORT THE
ARMY BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING TO DO
THE RIGHT THING.
WE'RE TRYING TO AVOID USING
FORCE.
WE'RE TRYING TO USE PEACEFUL
WAYS SUCH AS NEGOTIATIONS.
>> Woodruff: PROTESTERS HAVE
APPEALED TO THE ARMY TO
INTERVENE IN THEIR TWO-MONTH
BATTLE TO OUST THE GOVERNMENT.
REPORTS OF SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN
THE U.S. MILITARY INCREASED MORE
THAN 50% IN THE LATEST FISCAL
YEAR.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS OBTAINED
INITIAL DATA THAT THERE WERE
MORE THAN 5,000 SUCH REPORTS FOR
THE 12 MONTHS ENDING IN
SEPTEMBER.
PENTAGON OFFICIALS SAY THE
SPOTLIGHT PUT ON THE PROBLEM
THIS YEAR HAS MADE VICTIMS MORE
WILLING TO COME FORWARD.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, IT WAS A
QUIET CLOSE TO CHRISTMAS WEEK.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
SLIPPED A POINT TO CLOSE AT
16,478.
THE NASDAQ FELL TEN POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,156.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
1.6%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 1.3%.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
THE DEADLY BLAST IN THE HEART OF
BEIRUT; POLITICAL TURMOIL FOR
TURKEY'S PRIME MINISTER; A LOOK
AT ECONOMIC INEQUALITY AND
MOBILITY IN AMERICA; MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON ON
THE YEAR'S POLITICAL NEWS.
PLUS, SONGS CELEBRATING A
BEAUTIFUL AFRICA.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO LEBANON,
WHERE A PROMINENT POLITICIAN AND
OTHERS WERE KILLED IN A BOMB
ATTACK TODAY.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE POWERFUL
BLAST SHOOK BUILDINGS IN CENTRAL
BEIRUT THIS MORNING AND LEFT
WHAT LOOKED LIKE THE AFTERMATH
OF A BATTLE.
A LEBANESE T.V. CHANNEL CAPTURED
THE EERIE SILENCE IN THE STREETS
MOMENTS AFTER THE EXPLOSION HIT.
PLUMES OF SMOKE ROSE FROM
FLAMING CARS, AS SHAKEN
RESIDENTS TRIED TO MAKE SENSE OF
WHAT HAD HAPPENED.
>> ( translated ): AS YOU CAN
SEE ALL THE SHOPS HERE ARE
DAMAGED.
I CONSIDER ALL THIS TERRORISM,
ALL THIS IS TERRORISM, DAMAGING
THE COUNTRY AND THE PEOPLE. WHAT
MORE CAN WE SAY?
GOD HELP US, GOD HELP THIS
COUNTRY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE ATTACK
WOUNDED SCORES AND KILLED SIX
PEOPLE, INCLUDING THE MAIN
TARGET, MOHAMAD CHATAH, A
PROMINENT SUNNI POLITICIAN AND
FORMER AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.
HE WAS AN OUTSPOKEN CRITIC OF
THE ASSAD REGIME IN NEIGHBORING
SYRIA, AND THE LEBANESE SHI-ITE
MILITIA, HEZBOLLAH, FIGHTING FOR
ASSAD.
LESS THAN AN HOUR BEFORE THE
ATTACK, CHATAH TWEETED HIS
LATEST CRITICISM OF THE
MILITANTS, SAYING:
>> Sreenivasan: HEZBOLLAH
DENOUNCED THE ASSASSINATION, BUT
ALLIES OF CHATAH TOOK UP HIS
REFRAIN, IN THE HOURS AFTER
TODAY'S ATTACK.
>> THE TARGET IS LEBANON, ITS
INSTITUTION, ITS PRESIDENT, NOT
THE WHOLE IMAGE OF THIS COUNTRY,
THE CONVIVIAL COUNTRY, THE
COUNTRY OF DEMOCRACY.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM WASHINGTON,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
ALSO CONDEMNED THE KILLING.
HE CALLED CHATAH'S DEATH A
TERRIBLE LOSS AND SAID:
BUT THAT GOAL SEEMS FAR OFF, AS
THE CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA HAS
ALREADY SPLIT LEBANON INTO
OPPOSING POLITICAL CAMPS, WITH A
WEAK, CARETAKER GOVERNMENT SINCE
APRIL.
AND THERE'S BEEN A TIT-FOR-TAT
INCREASE IN BOMBINGS AND OTHER
ATTACKS IN RECENT MONTHS.
LAST MONTH, TWO SUICIDE BOMBINGS
ROCKED THE IRANIAN EMBASSY IN
BEIRUT, KILLING 25 PEOPLE.
IRAN IS A BACKER OF HEZBOLLAH.
TODAY'S ATTACK WAS THE FIRST
MAJOR STRIKE AT BEIRUT'S UPSCALE
RENOVATED CENTER IN YEARS.
ANN BARNARD IS THE BEIRUT
BUREAU CHIEF, I SPOKE TO HER
A SHORT TIME AGO.
WHAT IS THE LATEST
INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE
ABOUT THE BOMBING?
>> WELL, NO ONE HAS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY, WHICH IS NOT
UNUSUAL THERE HAVE BEEN A
SERIES OF ASSASSINATIONS IN
LEBANON DATING BACK TO 2004,
NONE OF WHICH HAVE BEEN
SOLVED.
AND ALMOST-- NONE OF THEM
HAS ANYONE CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY.
THERE WERE QUICK ACCUSATIONS
FROM MOHAMMAD CHATAH
POLITICAL PARTY IMPLIZING
THAT EITHER HEZBOLLAH OR THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT COULD HAVE
BEEN BEHIND THE
ASSASSINATION, THEY DENIED
IT.
>> HOW IMPORTANT WAS CHATAH
TO LEBANESE POLITICS.
>> HE IS AN IMPORTANT
FIGURE.
HE IS SOMEWHAT BEHIND-- HE
WAS ONE OF THE MAIN ADVISORS
TO HARIRI, THE FORMER PRIME
MINISTER AND HE WAS SEEN
EVEN BY POLITICAL OPPONENTS
AS A CONSENSUS BUILDER,
SOMEONE WHO WAS ABLE TO
REACH ACROSS POLITICAL AND
SECTARIAN LINES EVEN AT
MOMENTS OF EXTREME TENSION,
SO IN THAT SENSE HIS
PRESENCE WOULD BE SOARLY
MISSED AT A TIME LIKE THIS.
>> HOW MUCH OF A GRIP DOES
THE VIOLENCE THAT'S
HAPPENING IN SYRIA HAVE ON
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN BEIRUT
OR WHAT HAS BEEN HAPPENING
IN BEIRUT IN RECENT MONTHS?
>> WELL, OF COURSE THERE ARE
EXISTING CONDITIONS IN
LEBANON THAT PREDATE THE
SYRIAN WAR, AS IS IN THE
STRING AV SASS NATIONS THAT
I MENTIONED BEFORE.
BUT SINCE THE SYRIAN WAR HAS
ACCELERATED, THERE HAVE BEEN
A NUMBER OF VIOLENT ATTACKS
IN BEIRUT AND OTHER PARTS OF
LEBANON WHICH ARE SEEN AS
BEING PART OF THE SPILLOVER
FROM THE SYRIAN WAR WHICH
HAS BECOME A REGIONAL POWER
STRUGGLE.
THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL
BOMBINGS OF AREAS IN
SOUTHERN BEIRUT WHERE
HEZBOLLAH AN ALLY OF THE
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD HAS MANY SUPPORTERS.
THOSE HAVE BEEN WIDELY
BLAMED ON JIHADISTS FIGHTING
WITH THE SYRIAN REBELS OR ON
THEIR LEBANESE SYMPATHIZERS,
THERE WAS ALSO THE BOMBING
OF THE IRANIAN EMBASSY.
IRAN IS ALSO A SUPPORTER OF
ASSAD.
AND THERE HAVE BEEN FEARS
THAT THERE COULD BE REVENGE
ATTACKS FOR THOSE OR OTHER
JIHADI ATTACKS AS WELL AS
ALL KINDS OF OTHER PARTIES
THAT COULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF
ITS SITUATION TO SPREAD
DIVISIONS IN LEBANON AND TRY
TO SPILL OVER THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT.
>> HOW SURPRISING WAS IT
THAT THIS BOMBING HAPPENED
IN THIS PARTICULAR PART OF
THE CITY?
>> WELL, THAT WAS A BIG BLOW
TO BEIRUT.
THIS IS A NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH
IS A CONTESTED SPACE.
IT'S THE CENTER OF DOWNTOWN
BEIRUT WHICH WAS LARGELY
DESTROYED DURING THE WAR,
DURING THE LEBANON CIVIL WAR
WHICH ENDED IN 1990.
IT WAS REBUILT BY THE HARIRI
FAMILY.
AND THE SUPPORTER ITS SEE IT
AS A SYMBOL OF LEBANON'S
PERSISTENCE AND REBIRTH,
WHEREAS THE CRITICS SEE IT
AS A SPACE THAT HAS BECOME A
PLAYGROUND FOR THE WEALTHY.
SO IT'S A PLACE THAT HAS A
VERY STRONG SYMBOLISM.
BUT ESPECIALLY IN THE
HOLIDAY SEASON IT CAN BE A
VERY BUSY PLACE, SPARKLING
WITH CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS.
AND PEOPLE WERE SHOCKED TO
HAVE A BOMBING RIGHT IN THE
CENTER OF THE CITY THERE
HAVE BEEN, YOU KNOW,
FIGHTING IN THE NORTHERN
CITY OF TRIPOLI, THERE HAVE
BEEN SHELLING IN THE VALLEY
RELATED TO THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT.
BUT TO HAVE IT REALLY HIT
HOME IN THE CENTER OF BEIRUT
WAS SHOCKING TO A LOT OF
PEOPLE.
>> HOW MUCH OF THIS IS SORT
OF A PROXY FIGHT OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN SYRIA NOW
MOVING INTO LEBANON?
WITHIN WELL, THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT THE LEBANESE
HAVE BEEN WORRIED ABOUT FROM
THE EARLY DAYS OF THE SYRIAN
WAR.
AND WHEREAS THE POWERFUL
PARTIES HERE, HEZBOLLAH AND
RIVAL FUTURE MOVEMENT HAVE
SPOKEN OF TRYING TO KEEP
THINGS CALM INSIDE LEBANON.
BOTH OF THEM ARE SUPPORTING
OPPOSITE SIDES IN THE SYRIAN
WAR.
AND BOTH ARE ACCUSED OF
SENDING THEIR MILITANTS IN
TO SYRIA TO FIGHT ON
OPPOSITE SIDES.
YOU ALSO, SO YOU HAVE A
SITUATION WHERE THE EXISTING
DIVISIONS IN LEBANON ARE NOW
MAGNIFIED BY THOSE IN SYRIA.
>> ANNE BARNARD OF "THE NEW
YORK TIMES" IN BEIRUT,
LEBANON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO NEARBY
TURKEY-- ONCE A MODEL OF
STABILITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST--
WHERE AN EXPLODING CORRUPTION
SCANDAL THREATENS THE GOVERNMENT
OF PRIME MINISTER RECEP TAYYIP
ERDOGAN.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
EXPLAINS.
>> Warner: TENSIONS ERUPTED  IN
THE STREETS OF ISTANBUL THIS
EVENING AS  POLICE BLASTED
PROTESTERS WITH WATER CANNON,
TEAR GAS AND PLASTIC BULLETS.
THE CROWD THREW ROCKS AND
SHOUTED "CATCH THE THIEF!",
A CRY AIMED SQUARELY AT PRIME
MINISTER RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN,
IN THE EYE OF A WIDENING
CORRUPTION PROBE.
BUT EARLIER TODAY, THE PRIME
MINISTER DEFIANTLY REJECTED THE
CALLS FOR HIS REMOVAL.
>> ( translated ): LET ME BE
CLEAR.
IF OUR NATION TELLS US TO LEAVE,
WE'LL GO.
THERE'S NO HESITATION THERE.
BECAUSE THAT'S THE OFFICE WE
RESPECT.
BUT WHEN THE PEOPLE ARE TELLING
US TO STAY, WE WON'T LISTEN TO
SOMEONE WHO IS TELLING US TO GO.
>> Warner: THE CONTROVERSY
EXPLODED TEN DAYS AGO, WHEN
POLICE DETAINED TWO DOZEN
PEOPLE, MANY WITH ERDOGAN PARTY
TIES, IN A 14-MONTH-LONG
CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY
INVESTIGATION.
OFFICERS RAIDED THE HOME OF THE
C.E.O. A MAJOR STATE-OWNED BANK,
DISCOVERING BOXES OF TURKISH
LIRAS.
THE VIDEO GOT WIDE PLAY ON
TURKISH T.V.
IT WAS A SUDDEN BLOW TO ERDOGAN
AND HIS ISLAMIST JUSTICE AND
DEVELOPMENT PARTY, THE AKP, WHO
HAVE RULED FOR 11 YEARS.
ERDOGAN LASHED BACK, CHARGING
THAT POLITICAL FOES, LED BY
FOLLOWERS OF ISLAMIC CLERIC
FETHULLAH GULEN, AND FOREIGN
POWERS WERE PLOTTING TO BRING
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): THOSE WHO ARE
RECEIVING THE SUPPORT OF
FINANCIAL CIRCLES AND MEDIA
CANNOT CHANGE THE DIRECTION OF
THIS COUNTRY.
>> Warner: BUT EIGHT DAYS LATER,
ON CHRISTMAS DAY, THREE CABINET
MINISTERS RESIGNED AFTER THEIR
SONS WERE IMPLICATED IN THE
INVESTIGATION.
LATER THAT DAY, ERDOGAN REPLACED
TEN MINISTERS, BUT AGAIN
DENOUNCED THE INVESTIGATION AS
CONSPIRACY.
>> WE ARE FACING AN ATTACK
AGAINST THE TURKISH PEOPLE AND
THE TURKISH REPUBLIC WHICH IS
PRESENTED AS A CORRUPTION PROBE.
>> Warner: HIS GOVERNMENT ALSO
TRIED TO HEAD OFF THE PROBE,
WITH A NEW DECREE FORCING
PROSECUTORS TO CLEAR THEIR
EFFORTS WITH THEIR SUPERIORS.
LAST NIGHT, THE PROSECUTOR
LEADING THE PROBE CHARGED
INTERFERENCE AND WAS REMOVED
HOURS LATER.
BUT TODAY, A TURKISH COURT
ANNULLED THE DECREE REQUIRING
HIGH-LEVEL APPROVAL FOR ALL
INVESTIGATIONS.
THE NEW CONTROVERSY COMES ON THE
HEELS OF GIGANTIC SUMMERTIME
PROTESTS AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT'S PLANS TO RAZE
ISTANBUL'S POPULAR GEZI PARK TO
MAKE ROOM FOR DEVELOPMENT.
BOTH HAVE TAKEN AN ECONOMIC
TOLL.
FOREIGN INVESTORS ARE DUMPING
TURKISH BONDS, AND THE TURKISH
LIRA IS HAS DROPPED
DRAMATICALLY.
>> Woodruff: AND MARGARET JOINS
ME NOW.
MARGARET, A LOT OF DIFFERENT
SFRANDS TO THIS STORY, TELL
US PORE ABOUT WHAT IS BEHIND
ALL THIS.
>> Warner: WELL, JUDY, THE
WESTERN NARRATIVE IN TUR CAN
FOR OVER A DECADE HAS BEEN
THAT IT IS A BATTLE BETWEEN
THE OLD SECULAR FORCES
BACKED BY THE MILITARY AND
THE ISLAMISTS, THE RELIGIOUS
CON SERVE DIFFICULT PARTIES.
THE ISLAMISTS WON.
AND NOW WHAT YOU HAVE IS
REALLY A BATTLE WITHIN THAT
VICTORIOUS COALITION IN
WHICH ERD O-- ERDOGAN WHO
HAD TAKEN THE ATP OUT OF THE
SHADOWS, THE MADE IT THE
DOMINANT PART IN THIS
COUNTRY, A BOOMING ECONOMY,
A REPUTATION FOR CLEAN
GOVERNANCE, TURNED TURKEY
INTO THIS MUSLIM DEMOCRATIC
STATE IS SUDDENLY FACING
THESE CORE RUPING
ALLEGATIONS THAT GO RIGHT AT
THE HEART OF NOT ONLY PEOPLE
CLOSE TO HIM BUT, ACCORDING
TO THE TURKISH PRESS,
POTENTIALLY HIS SON.
AND HE IS FIGHTING BACK AS
WE JUST SAW.
>> Woodruff: AND HOW SO, HOW
IS HE DOING THAT?
>> Warner: WELL, HE'S
BASICALLY DOING WHAT HE DID
DURING THE PROWESS IT IS
THIS UP CERTIFICATE, INSTEAD
OF TAKING THE SUBSTANCE OF
THE CHARGES, CRITICISMS OR
COMPLAINTS SERIOUSLY, HE'S
GOING ON THE ATTACK.
SO NOT ONLY HAS HE TRIED TO
METEL IN THE SORT OF
PROSECUTOR RANKS AND SO ON
BY REA INSOING POLICE CHIEFS
AN PROSECUTORS, HE IS
BLAMING IT ON OUTSIDE FORCES.
THE U.S., BY IMPLICATION
ISRAEL, AND NOW THIS HOME
GROUP FORCE, THE MOVEMENT,
ANOTHER ISLAMIST MOVE,.
>> Woodruff: SO THE GULEN
MOVEMENT, GIVE US A
SENSE WHAT THAT IS?
>> THAT IS A VERY MYSTERIOUS
ORGANIZATION, JUDY.
FIRST OF ALL-- HEADED BY A
MAN WE JUST SAW IN THE STATE
WHO LIVES HERE IN
PENNSYLVANIA BECAUSE HE WAS
HOUNDED, FOR 15 YEARS AND
FOR REASONS IT ISN'T CLEAR
HE HADN'T GONE BACK.
IDEA LOGICAL IT IS A BLEND
OF SUFFICIENTI ISLAM THAT
HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS
WANTING TO MARRY ISLAM IN
MODERNITY BUT IN PRACTICE A
NETWORK OF BUSINESSMEN,
PEOPLE IN BURE
SOCK-- BUREAUCRACY, IN CIVIL
SOCIETY, BIG EDUCATION KPONANT
AND THEY WORK TOGETHER.
IT IS ALSO SECRET, YOU DON'T
REGISTER AS A GULENIST.
AND SO THEY ARE, FOR A LONG
TIME WERE ERDOGAN'S ALLIES
AGAINST THE MILITARY.
BUT IN THE LAST YEAR OR TWO
THEY HAVE COME TO FEEL THAT
ERDOGAN HAS BECOME AN
AUTHORITARIAN DEMOCRAT IS
ONE TERM THEY USE.
AND IS RUNNING KIND OF ROUGH
SHOD OVER SORT OF LET POWER
GO TO HIS HEAD.
AND SO THEY ARE ARE THEY IN
THE RANKS OF THE PROSECUTORS
AND POLICE, PROBABLY SO.
BUT THAT VIDEO DIDN'T LIE.
THIS MONEY WAS DISCOVERED
AND THE PUBLIC I TALKED TO
PEOPLE FROM GULENISTS TO
SECULARISTS AND THEY ALL
FOUND THESE ALLEGATIONS, YOU
KNOW, DISTURBING AND
PERSUASIVE.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW THAT
CORRUPTION ALLEGATION, HAVE
BEEN AROUND FOR A LONG TIME
IN TURKEY.
SO WHAT'S DIFFERENT ABOUT,
WHY IS THIS HAPPENING RIGHT
NOW?
>> TAS'S A REALLY GOOD
QUESTION BECAUSE YOU'RE
RIGHT.
WE'VE BEEN UNDER THE OLD
SECULARIST.
THE THOUGHT WAS THE WEALTHY
FAMILIES A LOT OF
SELF-DEALING THERE IN.
LAST TEN YEARS AS THE
ECONOMY HAS JUST BEEN, A LOT
OF NEW PEOPLE HAVEALSO
AND YOU HAVE ALL THESE
HIGH-RISES, YOU GO TO
ISTANBUL, YOU WE JUERST
THERE, IT IS UNBELIEVABLE
THE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S GOING
ON.
AND IT'S TAPPING INTO
RESENTIMENT.
JUST AS THE DAYSY PARK
DEMONSTRATIONS DID, THAT
THERE IS SOME CHI KANNERY
GOING ON SO THAT OFFICIALS
LOOK THE OTHER WAY AND
RETURN FOR MONEY AND THEY
OVERLOOK ZONING REGULATIONS,
THERE ARE ALSO OTHER CHARGES
INVOLVING MONEY LAUNDERING
AND IRANIANS AN RUSSIANS, SO
I TALKED TO ONE PERSON WHO
SAID HE THOUGHT THIS WAS A
GOOD SIGN THAT THE PUBLIC
NOW DARES TO TAKE ON THE
LEADER OF THIS DEMOCRACY AND
SAY YOU KNOW, NO, YOU
WEREN'T HUGO CHAVEZ.
YOU CAN'T JUST CONTINUE
RIPPING DOWN NEIGHBORHOODS
AND BUILDING WHAT YOUR
CROHNEES WANT TO BUILD
WITHOUT CONSULTING THE
CITIZENRY.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU
MENTIONED ERDOGAN BLAMING
OUTSIDERS INCLUDING THE
UNITED STES.AT
THAT HAS BEEN PART
OF-- WITHIN AND THAT WAS
PRETTY SHOCKING TO MANY
PEOPLE.
'S CAUSED FRANK RICARDI ONI,
ONE OF THE MOST RESPECTED
AMBASSADORS IN THE FOREIGN
SERVICE BEHIND THIS
CORRUPTION PROBE.
IT IS TRUE THAT TREASURY HAS
BEEN LOOKING AT THIS
PARTICULAR BANK AND
SUSPECTING IT.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S.
TREASURY.
>> YES, U.S. TREASURY
DEPARTMENT AND SUSPECTED IT
OF BEING INVOLVED IN SOME
ELICIT TRADING WITH IRAN.
BUT THE IDEA, NOBODY I
TALKED TO THINKS THERE IS
ANY SUBSTANCE TO THIS.
AND YET ERDOGAN THREATENS
THROUGH THE TURKISH MEDIA TO
HAVE HIM DECLARED PERSONA
NONGRATA AND KICK HIM OUT
THAT HAS GONE AWAY.
SECRETARY KERRY TALKED TO
THE FOREIGN MINISTER.
BUT IT IS A SURPRISING
DEVELOPMENT.
AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
ADMINISTRATION ERDOGAN AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA WERE ON THE
PHONE ALL THE TIME.
THE U.S. SAW THEM AS THE
STABLE ALLY IN A VOLATILE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND NOW THEY'VE ALREADY BEEN
SPLITS ON SOME ISSUES BUT IT
MAKES IT HARDER TO PARTNER
ON SYRIA OR IRAN OR
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: SO SOME OF
THESE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED.
THE INVESTIGATIONS CONTINUE,
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> WELL, THE REAL QUESTION
THAT PEOPLE ARE ASKING IS,
IS ERDOGAN IN DANGER HERE.
NOBODY I SPOKE WITH THINKS
THERE IS ANY PART THAT IS
ARRIVAL TO THE AKP THERE ARE
ELECTIONS FIX YEAR T IS
STILL THE MOST POPULAR PARTY,
HUGE SUPPORT IN THE RURAL
AREAS.
BUT PEOPLE WHO KNOW SO WATCH
TWO THINGS, ONE, DO KROUSD
OF PROTESTORS GET OUT AND
STAY IN THE STREET FOR WEEKS
AND WEEKS AND WEEKS AND PUT
PRESSURE ON.
AND TWO WHAT HAPPENS WITHIN
ERDOGAN'S ROLLING PARTY.
YOU START TO SEE FIGURES
DEFECT AND PUT PRESSURE ON
HIM TO STEP ASIDE FOR
SOMEONE LIKE PRESIDENT
GHOUL.
rd O BEGAN HAS DONE NOTHING
TO DIFFUSE THE SITUATION,
AND HOW THE PROSPECTS ARE
LAKELY F HE DOES NOTHING TO
DIFFUSE THE SITUATION, IF HE
CONTINUES TO STONEWALL AND
GO ON THE AGGRESSIVE.
>> Woodruff: WHICH IS WHAT
HE HAS BEEN DOING WANTS THEN
YOU KNOW, ANYTHING COULD
HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
WATCHING YET ANOTHER COUNTRY
IN TURMOIL IN THAT PART OF
THE WORLD.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TURN OUR
ATTENTION TO ECONOMIC ISSUES AND
A PRESSING DEADLINE: THE
EXPIRATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS FOR SOME AMERICANS THIS
WEEKEND.
IT COMES IN A YEAR WHEN THERE
HAVE BEEN MOUNTING CONCERNS OVER
INEQUALITY AND LACK OF
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN FOUR
YEARS AFTER THE RECESSION HIT,
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE REMAINS
STUBBORNLY HIGH AT 7%.
BUT AFTER SATURDAY, UNEMPLOYMENT
BENETS WILL END FOR AN
ESTIMATED 1.3 MILLION
INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE BEEN OUT OF
WORK FOR MORE THAN SIX MONTHS.
TYPICALLY, STATES AND THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PROVIDE
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE FOR UP TO
26 WEEKS.
IN THE WAKE OF THE RECESSION,
EMERGENCY AID WAS PROVIDED FOR A
LONGER PERIOD, UP TO 99 WEEKS
TOTAL AT ONE POINT, AND THE
PROGRAM WAS REPEATEDLY RENEWED.
BUT WHEN CONGRESS WENT HO THIMES
MONTH, IT DID NOT EXTEND THE
BENEFITS AGAIN AFTER DEMOCRATS
LIKE SENATOR RICHARD DURBIN OF
ILLINOIS URGED HIS COLLEAGUES TO
DO SO.
>> IF WE REALLY CARE ABOUT
WORKING FAMILIES AND THOSE WHO
ARE ON THEIR WAY BACK TO WORK,
WE'VE GOT TO EXTEND THESE
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME REPUBLICANS
ARGUE EXTENDING BENEFITS IS THE
WRONG PRESCRIPTION AS THE
RECOVERY TAKES A MORE FIRM HOLD.
SENATOR RAND PAUL OF KENTUCKY
MADE THAT CASE ON FOX NEWS.
>> WHEN YOU ALLOW PEOPLE TO BE
ON UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE FOR 99
WEEKS, YOU'RE CAUSING THEM TO
BECOME PART OF THIS PERPETUAL
UNEMPLOYED GROUP IN OUR ECONOMY.
AND IT REALLY-- WHILE IT SEEMS
GOOD, IT ACTUALLY DOES A
DISSERVICE TO THE PEOPLE YOU'RE
TRYING TO HELP.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BATTLE IS
THE LATEST THIS YEAR OVER
BROADER CONCERNS ABOUT
INEQUALITY AND A GROWING DIVIDE,
ISSUES THAT FIRST CAUGHT FIRE
DURING THE OCCUPY MOVEMENT.
>> HOLD THE BURGERS.
HOLD THE FRIES.
WE CAN'T SURVIVE ON $7.25.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS YEAR FAST
FOOD WORKERS AND OTHER LOW-WAGE
EMPLOYEES HELD STRIKES AROUND
THE COUNTRY CALLING FOR A
LIVING WAGE OF $15 AN HOUR.
FIVE STATES RAISED THEIR MINIMUM
WAGE.
AS DID SEVERAL COUNTIES AND
CITIES, LIKE D.C.
ANXIETY OVER INEQUALITY AND
MOBILITY, THE ABILITY TO MOVE UP
THE ECONOMIC LADDER, WERE A
CRITICAL PART OF THE DEBATE.
NEW YORK CITY MAYOR-ELECT BILL
DEBLASIO WON AFTER CAMPAIGNING
ON A "TALE OF TWO CITIES"
AND IN A SPEECH EARLIER THIS
MONTH, PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED
THE ISSUES "THE DEFINING
CHALLENGE OF OUR TIME."
>> THE COMBINED TRENDS OF
INCREASED INEQUALITY AND
DECREASING MOBILITY POSE A
FUNDAMENTAL THREAT TO THE
AMERICAN DREAM, OUR WAY OF LIFE,
AND WHAT WE STAND FOR AROUND THE
GLOBE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT SOME
CONSERVATIVE ECONOMISTS SAY THE
TRENDS ARE NOT THAT CLEAR CUT.
AND THERE'S NO POLITICAL
CONSENSUS YET ON HOW TO ADDRESS
IT.
LATE THIS AFTERNOON, THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD PRESS
CONGRESS TO PASS A THREE-MONTH
EXTENSION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS WHEN MEMBERS RETURN
FROM THE HOLIDAY.
SOME PERSPECTIVE ON ALL THIS AND
AN ASSESSMENT OF THE SCOPE OF
THESE BIGGER PROBLEMS.
ROBERT REICH IS A FORMER LABOR
SECRETARY DURING THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION AND NOW A
PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC POLICY AT
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
BERKELEY.
HIS DOCUMENTARY "INEQUALITY FOR
ALL" EXPLORES THE TOPIC.
AND SCOTT WINSHIP IS A SENIOR
FELLOW AT THE MANHATTAN
INSTITUTE WHOSE WORK INCLUDES
ECONOMIC MOBILITY AND
INEQUALITY.
I WANT TO START WITH YOU ON
THE NEWS OF THE DAY HERE,
YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE
EXPIRATION OF THE LONG TERM
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS?
>> WELL, HARI, THOSE ARE NOT
JUST BAD FOR THOSE FAMILIES,
BUT ALSO BAD FOR THE ECONOMY
OVERALL.
BECAUSE REMEMBER, THOSE
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS GOING
TO THE UNEMPLOYED-- UNEMPLOYED
WILL BE OR HAVE BEEN TURNED
AROUND BY THE UNEMPLOYED IN
TERMS OF THEIR PURCHASES OF
GOODS AND SERVICES, IF
THEY'RE NOT GETTING THAT
MONEY ANY LONGER.
THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
TURN AROUND AND BUY GOODS
AND SERVICES.
THAT MEANS THAT THE ECONOMY
WILL BE THAT MUCH LESS
ROBUST.
>> SCOTT WINSHIP, SHOULD
THEY BE EXTENDED.
>> YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK
IT IS A TERRIBLE IDEA.
I DO THINK THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A PRETTY SMALL
FRACTION OF THE LABOR FORCE,
PROBABLY ABOUT 3% OF FIX
YEAR'S WORKERS.
SO IT'S EASY TO OVERSTATE, I
THINK, THE COST AND THE
BENEFITS OF EXTENDING THEM.
BUT THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
REMAINS HIGH AND I DON'T
THINK ITS HE A BAD IDEA TO
EXTEND THEM FOR A BIT
LONGER.
>> OKAY, ROBERT REICH, LET'S
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY IS IT
INCREASING FOR MOST OF US OR
IS THE INEQUALITY JUST
INCREASING BETWEEN THE TOP
1% AND THE REST OF US?
>> MOST OF THE INEQUALITY WE
WERE SEEING AND WE'VE
EXPERIENCED IN THIS COUNTRY
FOR THE LAST 25 TO 30 YEARS
HAS BEEN BETWEEN THE VERY
TOP, THAT IS THE TOP 1/10 OF
1% OR 1%, OR MAYBE 3 TO 5%
DEPENDING ON HOW YOU MEASURE
IT, AND EVERYBODY ELSE, THE
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
CONTINUES TO STAGNATE BY
SOME MEASURES, ACTUALLY
DROPPING, ADJUSTED FOR
INFLATION WHILE THE PEOPLE
AT THE VERY TOP THEY'VE GOT
95% OF ALL OF THE ECONOMIC
GAINS SINCE THE RECOVERY
BEGAN.
AND SO THERE'S NO QUESTION
THAT INEQUALITY IS WIDENING.
BUT IT'S WIDENING PRIMARILY
BETWEEN THE TOP AND
EVERYBODY ELSE.
>> SCOTT WINSHIP, SHOULD WE
BE CONCERNED ABOUT THIS?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S
MUCH REASON TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT IT.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
LITERATURE, THE CLAIMS ABOUT
HOW INEQUALITY IS RISE HAS
HURT THE MIDDLE CLASS AND
POOR IS REALLY OVERSTATED.
THE MIDDLE CLASS HAS NOT
STALLING NATURED.
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
OFFICE PUTS OUT INCOME
FIGURES EVERY YEAR AND THEY
SHOW SINCE 1979 THE MIDDLE
CLASS IS SOMETHING LIKE 40
TO 50% BETTER OFF THAN THEY
WERE AND THE POOR ACTUALLY
ARE QUITE A BIT BETTER OFF
THAN THEY WERE AS WELL.
SO I THINK THERE'S EVEN A
LITTLE BIT OF QUESTION ABOUT
WHETHER THE EXTENT TO WHICH
THE TOP HAS PULLED AWAY FROM
EVERYONE ELSE THAT HINGES ON
HOW YOU MEASURE THE INCOME
THAT FOLKS AT THE TOP GET
FROM THEIR INVESTMENT
INCOME.
BUT AT ANY RATE, THE DOTS
HAVE YET TO BE CONNECTED, I
THINK, POINTING TO WHERE
THIS INCREASE HAS HURT OTHER
FOLKS.
>> ROBERT REICH, ONE OF
THOSE DOTS PEOPLE LIKE TO
CONNECT IS THE INCOME
INEQUALITY ALONG WITH
ECONOMIC MOBILITY IS THERE A
STRONG CONNECTION BETWEEN
THE TWO.
>> THERE IS FOR THE SIMPLE
REASON THAT AS THE INCOME
LADDER LENGTHENS BECAUSE
PEOPLE AT THE TOP ARE THAT
MUCH FURTHER AWAY FROM THE
MIDDLE-- PEOPLE AT THE
MIDDLE AND THE PEOPLE IN THE
MIDDLE ARE FAR AWAY FROM
PEOPLE AT THE BOTTOM, IS
THAT LADDER ELONGATES IT'S
HARDER AND HARDER TO GET
ANYWHERE ON THE LADDER IF
YOU START CLIMBING EVEN IF
YOU CLIMB THAT LADDER AT THE
SAME RATE OF UPWARD MOBILITY
THAT WE HAD 30 OR 40 YEARS
AGO WHICH WE DON'T HAVE, IT
WOULD STILL BE HARDER TO GET
ANYWHERE PLUS WE HAVE A LOT
OF MIDDLE RUNGS OF THAT
LADDER NOW DISAPPEARING
BECAUSE ALL THOSE
MANUFACTURING JOBS THAT USED
TO BE UNIONIZED AND PAID
PRETTY GOOD WAGES EVEN
THOUGH A LOT OF EDUCATION
WAS NOT NEEDED, THOSE RUNGS
OF LADDER ARE NOW GONE.
>> SO IS THERE ENOUGH DATA
TO SUPPORT THAT OR HOW ABOUT
THE IDEA OF ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY, SOMEONE WHO IS
BORN IN A POOR FAMILY OR
POOR HOUSEHOLD TODAY, DO
THEY HAVE THE SAME SHOT OF
CLIMBING OUT OF THAT POV
THE.
>> WELL, AGAIN, I THINK YOU
CAN BE CONCERNED ABOUT
WHETHER THERE IS ENOUGH
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY AND
WHETHER FOLKS AT THE BOTTOM
HAVE ENOUGH OF A CHANCE TO
GET AHEAD.
BUT FOR FOLKS WHO STUDY THE
TOPIC THE RESEARCH COULDN'T
BE CLEAR THEIR THERE IS NO
CONSENSUS 'TIS THAT MOBILITY
HAS KLEINED TO THE UNITED
STATES.
MOST OF THE STUDIES SHOW
THERE IS VERY LITTLE CHANGE
SINCE THE MID 20th CENTURY.
SO YOU CAN BELIEVE THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
OPPORTUNITY BUT WE DO BUT
THE IDEA IS THAT IT HAS
KLEINED THERE IS VERY LITTLE
TO SUPPORT THAT.
>> ROBERT YOU WERE REICH,
YOUR RESPONSE.
>> WE MUST BE LOOKING AT
DIFFERENT STUDIES, WITH DU
DUE RESPECT, EVERYTHING I
HAVE SEEN, THE PEW STUDIES,
OTHER STUDIES SHOW THAT
ACTUALLY IT IS HARDER FOR A
POOR KID TO MAKE HIS WAY OR
HER WAY UP, NOT ONLY BECAUSE
GEOGRAPHIC POV CERT MORE
CONCENTRATED BUT ALSO
BECAUSE THAT GEOGRAPHIC
POVERTY ALSO CORRELATES WITH
POORER SCHOOLS, WITH POORER
PUBLIC HEALTH, FEWER PUBLIC
PARKS, OFTEN ENVIRONMENTS
THAT SIMPLY ARE UNSAFE OR
ARE NOT CONDUCIVE TO UPWARD
MOBILITY.
FEWER MODELS, PEOPLE WHO ARE
ACTUALLY MAKING IT AROUND
YOU.
IF I CAN ALSO GO BACK TO
SOMETHING ELSE YOUR OTHER
GUEST OFFERED BEFORE, THAT
WAS THAT IT IS NOT A PROBLEM
THAT WE HAVE WIDENING
INEQUALITY.
LET ME JUST FORGET ONE OF
THE REASONS WE ARE SEEING
SUCH A SLOW ANEMIC RECOVERY
IS BECAUSE THE VAST MIDDLE
CHAS DOESN'T HAVE THE
PURCHASING POWER TO KEEP THE
ECONOMY GOING.
WITH SO MUCH MONEY OVER 20%
OF TOTAL INCOME GOING TO THE
TOP 1%, THE VAST MIDDLE
CLASS AND THE POOR JUST,
THEY DON'T HAVE ENOUGH MONEY
TO BUY ENOUGH TO KEEP THE
ECONOMY, TO GET THE
COMPETENT BACK ON TRACK.
>> WHAT ABOUT THAT IDEA THAT
THE ECONOMIC, THE TRICKLE
DOWN EFFECT ISN'T HAPPENING
F THE 1% ARE GETTING
WEALTHIER, THEY'RE NOT
SPENDING IT AND CREATING THE
SAME TYPE OF DEMAND THAT THE
MIDDLE CLASS WOULD.
>> IT IS A THEORY LITERATURE
ON WHETHER RISING INEQUALITY,
WHETHER MORE INEQUALITY
RESULTS IN SLOWER GROWTH, A
NUMBER OF STUDIES AS MONEY
HAS SHOWED THAT IT HURTS
GROWTH ACTUALLY SHOW THAT
MORE INEQUALITY DON'T THINK THAT
MEANS WE OUGHT TO BE ROOTING
FOR MORE INEQUALITY IN THE
UNITED STATES BUT IF YOU ARE
REALLY LOOKING FOR A SMOKING
GUN THAT MORE INEQUALITY HAS
HURT ECONOMIC GROWTH IN THE
MIDDLE CLASS OR POOR IT'S
NOT THERE.
>> ROBERT REICH WHAT ABOUT
THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHATEVER
RATE OF INEQUALITY THAT TWO
OF YOU MIGHT AGREE ON, BUT
WHAT ARE THOSE CONSEQUENCES.
>> BESIDES SLOWER ECONOMIC
GROWTH AND I DO THINK THE
STUDIES, PREDOMINANTLY DO
SHOW THAT AND INTUITIVELY
IT'S OBVIOUS, BEYOND THAT
YOU HAVE AN KIND OF
CORRUPTION AND ERODING OF
OUR DEMOCRACY.
WHEN MORE AND MORE MONEY
ACCUMULATES AT THE TOP, SO
DOES INEVITABLY POLITICAL
POWER AS THE GREAT AMERICAN
JURIST LOUIS BRAN DYESS ONCE
SAID WE CAN HAVE A GREAT
DEAL OF MONEY IN THE
HANDS-OF-A FEW PEOPLE OR A
DEMOCRACY.
BUT WE CAN'T HAVE BOTH.
BECAUSE MONEY INEVITABLY OF
THAT DEGREE AS IN THE LATE
19th CENTURY NOW, DOES
CORRUPT AND UNDERMINE WITH
LOBBYING AN CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS, OUR DEM
SOCK-- DEMOCRACY.
>> QUICK LAST WORD.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE A
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT WHO
JUST WON A SECOND TERM.
WE HAD A HUGE EXPANSION OF
ENTITLEMENTS IN THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT RAISING
THE MINIMUM WAGE.
I THINK THE EVIDENCE ISN'T
THERE THAT SOMEHOW
INEQUALITY HAS PRODUCED
POLITICS THAT HAS BEEN LESS
KIND TO THE MIDDLE CLASS AN
POOR.
>> ALL RIGHT, SCOTT WINSHIP,
ROBERT REICH, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANKS.
YEN LINE WE HAVE A ROUND UP
OF PAUL SOLMAN'S EXTENSIVE
COVERAGE OF INEQUALITY
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
YOU CAN FIND IT ALL ON
MAKING CENTS.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
MARK SHIELDS AND "WASHINGTON
POST" COLUMNIST MICHAEL GERSON.
DAVID BROOKS IS AWAY TONIGHT.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE JUST HORDE
THIS CONVERSATION, MARK,
ABOUT INEQUALITY.
WE TALKED ABOUT IT BEFORE AT
THIS TABLE.
HOW BIG A PROBLEM IS IT IN
THIS COUNTRY AS WE CLOSE OUT
THIS YEAR?
>> I THINK IT'S A GROWING
PROBLEM.
I THINK IT'S A REAL PROBLEM,
JUDY.
AND THE PRESIDENT IS
OBVIOUSLY CALLED IT THE
DEFINING ISSUE OF OUR TIME.
AND POINTED OUT THAT OVER
THE PAST 35 YEARS WE HAVE
SEEN A WIDENING OF THE
DIFFERENCE IN INCOME AND
WEALTH BETWEEN THE MIDDLE
CLASS AND BETWEEN THE TOP 1%,
TOP 1% IN THE PAST 30 YEARS
SINCE RONALD REAGAN WAS
PRESIDENT HAVE SEEN THEIR
INCOMES GO UP BY 279%, JUST
LAST YEAR 10%, TOP 10% GOT
MORE THAN 50% OF THE
COUNTRY'S INCOME.
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME THAT
HAS EVER HAPPENED IN U.S.
HISTORY AND SORT OF THE
IRONY OF THIS IS THAT AS HIS
CRITICS, IF ANYTHING,
CAPITALISTS HAVE DONE
EXCEEDINGLY WELL DURING THE
(OBAMA PRESIDENCY.
>> IF THAT'S THE CASE WHERE
IS THE OUTRAGE OR SHOULD BE
THERE ANY OUTRAGE ABOUT
THIS?
>> WELL, THERE SHOULD BE.
I THINK THERE SHOULD.
I MEAN I THINK ARE YOU
SEEING STICKINESS AT THE
LOWER ENDS OF THE LADDER.
AND AN ABILITY FOR THE
UPPER-CLASS TO PERPETUATE
PRIVILEGE IN THE OFTEN
AFFLUENT AND EDUCATED PEOPLE
ARE MARRYING AFFLUENT AND
EDUCATED PEOPLE.
THE PROBLEM HERE, THE BAD
NEWS IS IT'S A VERY COMPLEX
SOCIAL PROBLEM.
IT'S NOT JUST A DIFFERENCE
IN INCOME.
IT'S A DIFFERENCE IN SKILLS
AND EDUCATION AND SOCIAL
CAPITOL.
THOSE ARE WHAT REALLY MAKE
THE DIFFERENCE IN THE
LONG-TERM AND THAT'S GOING
TO REQUIRE INSTITUTIONS TO
CHANGE FUNDAMENTALLY,TO BE
ABLE TO TRANSFER THOSE
SKILLS AND EDUCATION AND
VALUES.
THE GOOD NEWS FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE IS THAT BOTH
LEFT AND RIGHT HAVE PART OF
THE ANSWER HERE.
YOU KNOW PART OF THE PROBLEM
IS THE DECLINE OF FAMILIES
AND VALUE SHAPING
INSTITUTIONS, AND PART OF
THE PROBLEM IS THE DECLINE
OF BLUE COLLAR JOBS AT
DECENT WAGES.
YOU KNOW, BOTH LEFT AND
RIGHT SHOULD HAVE SOMETHING
TO CONTRIBUTE HERE.
ROBERT PUTNAM WHO IS AN
EXPERT ON THESE ISSUES AT
HARVARD CALLS IT A PERFECTLY
PURPLE PROBLEM.
MEANING THE LEFT HAS
INSIGHTS INTO THE PROBLEM.
THE RIGHT HAS INSIGHTS IN
THE PROBLEM.
THEY SHOULD COME TOGETHER
AND HAVE SOME IDEA.
>> AND MARK IS THERE ANY
SIGN OR REASON TO THINK THEY
WILL COME TOGETHER AND DO
SOMETHING.
>> WELL, I THINK IT IS.
I THINK JUDY THAT IT-- I
THINK IT HAS BECOME
INCREASINGLY EVIDENT THAT
INCOME INEQUAL SIT JUST NOT
BAD ETHICS OR BAD MORALLY,
IT'S BAD ECONOM AS ROBERT REICHS
POINTING OUT, WHEN PEOPLE
DON'T HAVE DISPOSABLE INCOME,
THEY CAN'T BUY GOODS AND
SERVICES.
THEY CAN'T, AND SPUR THE
GREATER ECONOMY.
AND I THINK THE POPE HAS
CONTRIBUTED TO THIS
DISCUSSION.
I THINK HE'S GIVEN A MORAL
DIMENSION THAT MAKING THE
POINT THAT WHILE
GLOBALIZATION HAS MADE US
ALL NEIGHBORS, BUT CERTAINLY
HASN'T MADE US ALL BROTHERS.
AND THAT THAT IS REALLY A
SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY THAT
WE HAVE, WHEN MOBILITY IS
LOST IN THIS COUNTRY BECAUSE
THAT HAS BEEN SORT OF THE
DREAM, THE IDEAL OF THE
UNITED STATES, I MEAN WHEN
ONE OUT OF 20 CHILDREN BORN
IN THE BOTTOM 5th EVER MAKES
IT THE TOP FIFTH, AN WHEN
MICHAEL-- TO THE POINT TWO
OUT OF THREE WHO ARE BORN IN
THE TOP FIFTH REMAIN THERE,
I MEAN, THEY ARE THERE.
I MEAN SO THERE ISN'T THAT
SENSE OF GOING BACK AND
FORTH AND HIGH RISK.
>> THE CONVERSATION RIGHT
NOW AS WE JUST HEARD,
MICHAEL, IS ABOUT EXTENDING
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS BUT
THERE IS A LARGER QUESTION
HERE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
IS THERE REAL, TANGIBLE
EVIDENCE ANYWHERE THAT THE
TWO SIDES, YOU TALK ABOUT
THE TWO SIDES HAVE PUT
FORWARD IDEAS ABOUT THIS.
>> IT'S A GOOD THING THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS MADE
SOME ELOQUENT SPEECHES ABOUT
IT.
PAUL RYAN HAS ANNOUNCED THIS
WILL BE A FOCUS OF WHAT HE
WANTS TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY OVER THE
NEXT YEAR.
BE INTERESTING IT TO SEE
WHAT IDEAS HE COMES UP WITH.
I AGREE WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
ON THIS.
I THINK IT IS A CENTRAL
ISSUE TO THE DEFINITION OF
THE COUNTRY.
AMERICANS ARE WILLING TO
ACCEPT INEQUALITY WHEN
THERE'S MOBILITY.
BUT IN THE ABSENCE OF
MOBILITY, INEQUALITY IS JUST
A CAST SYSTEM IN WHICH BIRTH
EQUALS DESTINY.
THAT'S NOT CONSISTENT WITH
THE AMERICAN IDEAL.
THERE'S MUCH OF THAT IN
AMERICA.
>> I GUESS WHAT I'M SAYING
WHERE IS IT ON THE A GNDA?
>> WELL, I THINK WE DO
THINGS IN THIS CITY BY BABY
STEPS.
I THINK IF WE DO MINIMUM
WAGE IF WE EXTEND
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE, I
THINK THOSE-- .
>> Woodruff: YOU THINK
MINIMUM WAGE COULD GET --
>> YES, I THINK THERE IS, I
THINK THERE IS NO QUESTION
THAT MINIMUM WAGE, YOU KNOW,
IT'S BEING DONE
STATE-BY-STATE, BUT I THINK
THERE IS A REAL CHANCE THAT
WE REQUEST GET SOME MOMENTUM
GOING, IN THAT DIRECTION.
AND THE KEY IS, JUDY, THOSE
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS WHETHER
THEY'RE SCHOOLS OR WHETHER
THEY'RE COLLEGES OR WHETHER
THEY'RE TRAINING CENTERS,
THAT, WHERE PEOPLE DO A
QUARTER THE SKILLS, THAT
THEY CAN RISE.
I MEAN WE CAN'T UNDERFUND
THOSE.
WE CAN'T UNDER STAFF THOSE.
AND I THINK THAT BECOMES A
PART OF THE DEBATE.
>> IF THOSE KINDS OF THINGS
GET DONE, MICHAEL, DOES THAT
MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE?
>> WELL, I THINK IT SHOULD.
BUT I JUST WON'T
UNDERESTIMATE HOW DIFFICULT
THIS IS.
I MEAN WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
EDUCATION REFORM FOR A
COUPLE OF DECADES IN
AMERICA.
IT'S HARD TO DO.
IT'S HARD TO IMPLEMENT BUT
IT'S A KEY TO ALL OF THIS.
GRADUATION FROM HIGH SCHOOL
AND THEN GRADUATION FROM
COLLEGE.
THESE ARE KEYS TO SOCIAL
MOBILITY.
AND WE DON'T REALLY KNOW HOW
TO GET THERE RIGHT NOW BUT
WE NEED TO COME UP WITH SOME
IDEAS.
>> IF DEMOCRATS PUSHED
MINIMUM-WAGE INCREASE WOULD
REPUBLICAN GOES ALONG WITH
IT IF IT WERE A FEDERAL
MOVE?
>> I THINK THERE WOULD BE
SIGNIFICANT RESISTANCE ON
THE PART 6 SIGNIFICANT
PORTIONS OF THE REPUBLICAN
COALITION ON MINIMUM WAGE.
FOR ECONOMIC ARGUMENTS BACK
AND FORTH ON HOW THIS
AFFECTS ENTRY LEVEL JOBS AND
OTHER THINGS.
>> ALL RIGHT, VERY QUICK
QUESTION ABOUT EDWARD
SNOWDEN, HE CAME OUT I GUESS
THE DAY BEFORE, THE DAY OF
CHRISTMAS TO SAY MISSION
ACCOMPLISHED.
HE OF COURSE IS THE FORMER
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
CONTRACTOR WHO PUT OUT
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PAGES OF DOCUMENTS, MARK.
MISSION ACCOMPLISHED?
WHAT SHOULD WE BE THINKING
ABOUT EDWARD SNOWDEN RIGHT
NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE
CERTAIN FACTS THAT ARE
IRREFUTABLE.
HE TOOK AN OATH.
HE PROBE THE OATH.
HE VIOLATED THE LAW.
AT THE SAME TIME, HE STARTED
A NATIONAL DEBATE THAT WE
HAVE NOT HAD IN THIS I CAN
BEFORE.
HE'S REVEALED, HE HAS
CERTAINLY COMPLICATED
AMERICA'S RELATIONS WITH
FOREIGN COUNTRIES BOTH
FRIENDLY AND MAYBE NEUTRAL.
BY REVEALING THAT WE HAVE
BEEN EAVESDROPPING ON THEIR
LEADERS' PHONES.
HE LED TO THE DREBLINGER OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE LYIN
LYING-- DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE LYING TO THE
SENATOR OF THE UNITED STATES
WHEN ASKED IF THEY COLLECTED
DATA ON THOUSANDS OF
AMERICANS, MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS.
HE SAID NO.
AND IT TURNS OUT EVERY PHONE
CALL, IT'S NUMBER AND ITS
LENGTH ARE IN FACT RECORDED.
SO I THINK IT STARTED A
DEBATE.
I HAVE BEEN SURPRISED, JUDY
THERE HADN'T BEEN A MORE
INTENSE DEBATE ABOUT
PRIVACY.
BUT I CAN SEE IT NOW,
GAINING SOME TRACTION IN
THIS COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS
HIS-- WHAT ARE WE LEFT WITH
AT THE END OF THIS YEAR
BECAUSE OF THE SNOWDEN
DISCLOSURES?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT HE
DEMONSTRATES HOW TECHNOLOGY
IS DEFUSING AND
DECENTRALLIZING POWER IN
AMERICA.
SOME CONTRACTOR, OBSCURE
CONTRACTOR BECAUSE OF THE
WAY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
WORKS CAN EXPOSE THE
GOVERNMENT AND HAVE
TREMENDOUS DISPROPORTIONATE
INFLUENCE.
ALSO MAKES IT HARDER FOR THE
GOVERNMENT TO KEEP SECRETS
WHICH ARE SOMETIMESCURITY.
I MEAN WE'RE SHOWING THE
UPSIDE OF TECHNOLOGY, THE
DECENTRALIZES POWER BUT IT
COMPLICATES THE WORK OF
GOVERNMENT.
SOMETIMES ESSENTIAL ROLES OF
AND THAT'S THE FLIP SIDE.
GOVERNMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT THIS IS OUR
AND THAT'S THE FLIP SIDE.
LAST FRIDAY SHOW BEFORE THE
>> ALL RIGHT THIS IS OUR
END OF THE YEAR.
LAST FRIDAY SHOW BEFORE THE
SO I GET TO ASK A FEW
END OF THE YEAR.
QUESTIONS, LOOKING BACK.
SO I GET TO ASK A FEW
MARK, HERE'S ONE.
QUESTIONS, LOOKING BACK.
WHAT SHOULD THE PRESIDENT
MARK, HERE'S ONE.
HAVE LEARNED IN 2013?
WHAT SHOULD THE PRESIDENT
>> THE PRESIDENT SHOULD HAVE
HAVE LEARNED IN 2013?
LEARNED, JUDY, THAT REALITY
>> THE PRESIDENT SHOULD HAVE
COUNTS.
LEARNED, JUDY, THAT REALITY
THAT W,
COUNTS.
ERR-- RUBBER HITS THE ROAD,
THAT W,
WHERE PEOPLE LIVE, I MEAN
ERR-- RUBBER HITS THE ROAD,
THE ROLLOUT OF THE HEALTH
WHERE PEOPLE LIVE, I MEAN
CARE, THE CROWNING GLORY OF
THE ROLLOUT OF THE HEALTH
HIS ADMINIRATISTON, THE
CARE, THE CROWNING GLORY OF
SIGNATURE ISSUES, HAS BEEN A
HIS ADMINIRATISTON, THE
LITTLE SHORT OF A PUBLIC
SIGNATURE ISSUES, HAS BEEN A
CATASTROPHE AND A POLITICAL
LITTLE SHORT OF A PUBLIC
DISASTER.
CATASTROPHE AND A POLITICAL
AND IT'S RAISED SERIOUS
DISASTER.
QUESTIONS AMONG THE
AND IT'S RAISED SERIOUS
PRESIDENT'S OWN SUPPORTERS
QUESTIONS AMONG THE
ABOUT HIS
PRESIDENT'S OWN SUPPORTERS
COMPETENT-- COMPETENCE AND
ABOUT HIS
ABOUT THE COMPETENCE OF THE
COMPETENT-- COMPETENCE AND
QUALITY OF PEOPLE THAT HE
ABOUT THE COMPETENCE OF THE
HAS CHOSEN TO STAFF HIS
QUALITY OF PEOPLE THAT HE
ADMINISTRATION.
HAS CHOSEN TO STAFF HIS
SO I DON'T THINK THERE IS
ADMINISTRATION.
ANY QUESTION THAT IT'S BEEN
SO I DON'T THINK THERE IS
A-- IT SHOULD BE AN
ANY QUESTION THAT IT'S BEEN
INCREDIBLY SOBERING
A-- IT SHOULD BE AN
EXPERIENCE FOR THE
INCREDIBLY SOBERING
PRESIDENT.
EXPERIENCE FOR THE
>> WHAT WOULD YOU SAYHOU SLD
PRESIDENT.
HAVE BEEN THE BIGGEST LESSON
>> WHAT WOULD YOU SAYHOU SLD
FOR THE PRESIDENT SM.
HAVE BEEN THE BIGGEST LESSON
>> WELL, I THINK BOTH SIDES
FOR THE PRESIDENT SM.
HAVE LESSONS HERE.
>> WELL, I THINK BOTH SIDES
I MEAN THIS IS A YEAR IN
HAVE LESSONS HERE.
WHICH THE LEFT IN SOME WAY
I MEAN THIS IS A YEAR IN
SHOWED ITS WORST FACE IN
WHICH THE LEFT IN SOME WAY
OBAMA CARE, OVERCOMPETENT,
SHOWED ITS WORST FACE IN
TECHNOLOGICALLY INCOMPETENT.
OBAMA CARE, OVERCOMPETENT,
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE
TECHNOLOGICALLY INCOMPETENT.
RIGHT SHOWED ITS WORSE FACE.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE
ANGRY POPULISM, UNINTERESTED
RIGHT SHOWED ITS WORSE FACE.
IN GOVERNING.
ANGRY POPULISM, UNINTERESTED
THE SPECTACLE WAS
IN GOVERNING.
EXTRAORDINARY THIS FALL, OF
THE SPECTACLE WAS
BOTH PARTIES, ESSENTIALLY
EXTRAORDINARY THIS FALL, OF
SELF-SDRUKTING AT THE SAME
BOTH PARTIES, ESSENTIALLY
TIME, UNABLE TO TAKE
SELF-SDRUKTING AT THE SAME
ADVANTAGE OF ONE ANOTHER'S
TIME, UNABLE TO TAKE
MISTAKES.
ADVANTAGE OF ONE ANOTHER'S
BLAMING ONE ANOTHER BUT
MISTAKES.
REALLY BEING AT FAULT
BLAMING ONE ANOTHER BUT
THEMSELVES.
REALLY BEING AT FAULT
BAD FOR AMERICAN POLITICS
THEMSELVES.
WHEN THAT HAPPENS.
BAD FOR AMERICAN POLITICS
AND NOW WE'RE LEFT TO ASK
WHEN THAT HAPPENS.
WELL, WHAT EMERGES FROM THE
AND NOW WE'RE LEFT TO ASK
RUINS?
WELL, WHAT EMERGES FROM THE
WILL REASONABLE ELEMENTS OF
RUINS?
BOTH PARTIES BE ABLE TO
WILL REASONABLE ELEMENTS OF
EMERGE AND DO THINGS LIKE
BOTH PARTIES BE ABLE TO
EMPHASIZE OPPORTUNITY AND
EMERGE AND DO THINGS LIKE
REFORMS OF HEALTH CARE WHICH
EMPHASIZE OPPORTUNITY AND
ARE GOING TO BE NECESSARY
REFORMS OF HEALTH CARE WHICH
GOING FORWARD, OR NOT IN
ARE GOING TO BE NECESSARY
THIS.
GOING FORWARD, OR NOT IN
BUT WE, IT WAS A BAD YEAR
THIS.
FOR OUR POLITICALASS.
BUT WE, IT WAS A BAD YEAR
>> YOU THINK LESSONS WERE
FOR OUR POLITICALASS.
LEARNED.
>> YOU THINK LESSONS WERE
>> I THINK THE REPUBLICANS
LEARNED.
LEARNED, SHOULD HAVE LEARNED
>> I THINK THE REPUBLICANS
THE FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH.
LEARNED, SHOULD HAVE LEARNED
IT IS POLITICS IS NOT A
THE FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH.
SEESAW.
IT IS POLITICS IS NOT A
JUST BECAUSE THE OTHER GUY
SEESAW.
IS DOWN DOESN'T MEAN YOU'RE
JUST BECAUSE THE OTHER GUY
UP.
IS DOWN DOESN'T MEAN YOU'RE
THEY'RE DOWN EVEN FURTHER.
UP.
AND THERE'S PETER HART HAS
THEY'RE DOWN EVEN FURTHER.
POINTED OUT, THE LOWEST
AND THERE'S PETER HART HAS
POINT IN THE HISTORY OF "THE
POINTED OUT, THE LOWEST
WALL STREET JOURNAL" POLL OF
POINT IN THE HISTORY OF "THE
ANY POLITICAL PARTY, I MEAN
WALL STREET JOURNAL" POLL OF
IT ISN'T THE PEOPLE, THE
ANY POLITICAL PARTY, I MEAN
SUPPORTERS OF THE PRESIDENT
IT ISN'T THE PEOPLE, THE
WHO HAVE BEEN DISAPPOINTED
SUPPORTERS OF THE PRESIDENT
OR IN SOME CASES DISAFFECTED
WHO HAVE BEEN DISAPPOINTED
BY AN 11-1 MARGIN FIND
OR IN SOME CASES DISAFFECTED
REPUBLICANS NEGATIVE.
BY AN 11-1 MARGIN FIND
AND THEY HAVE, THEY ARE A
REPUBLICANS NEGATIVE.
PARTY WITHOUT IDEAS.
AND THEY HAVE, THEY ARE A
I MEAN MICHAEL HAS SPOKEN
PARTY WITHOUT IDEAS.
ABOUT PAUL RYAN'S PLANS AND
I MEAN MICHAEL HAS SPOKEN
THEIR AMBITIOUS PLANS.
ABOUT PAUL RYAN'S PLANS AND
BUT THERE ISN'T A REPUBLICAN
THEIR AMBITIOUS PLANS.
HEALTH-CARE PLAN.
BUT THERE ISN'T A REPUBLICAN
THERE HASN'T BEEN.
HEALTH-CARE PLAN.
THEY ALL-- BASICALLY WHAT
THERE HASN'T BEEN.
THE REPUBLICANS HAVE LEARNED
THEY ALL-- BASICALLY WHAT
IS THIS, JUDY.
THE REPUBLICANS HAVE LEARNED
SOMETHING THAT THE BEER
IS THIS, JUDY.
INDUSTRY LEARNED A LONG TIME
SOMETHING THAT THE BEER
AGO.
INDUSTRY LEARNED A LONG TIME
AND THAT IS ONE BEER COMPANY
AGO.
DOESN'T ACCUSE THE OTHER
AND THAT IS ONE BEER COMPANY
BEER COMPANY OF CAUSING
DOESN'T ACCUSE THE OTHER
HANGOVERS, BAD BREATH AND
BEER COMPANY OF CAUSING
BIG STOMACHES, BECAUSE IN
HANGOVERS, BAD BREATH AND
THE LONG RUN IT STARTS TO
BIG STOMACHES, BECAUSE IN
HURT BEERB, AND BEER SALES.
THE LONG RUN IT STARTS TO
AND THEY'VE REALLY HURT
HURT BEERB, AND BEER SALES.
POLITICS AND HURT POLL
AND THEY'VE REALLY HURT
SIGNIFICANCE-- POLITICIANS I
POLITICS AND HURT POLL
THINK BY THE CONSTANT
SIGNIFICANCE-- POLITICIANS I
RELENTLESS NEGATIVISM.
THINK BY THE CONSTANT
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN ALONE IN
RELENTLESS NEGATIVISM.
THAT RESPECT.
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN ALONE IN
BUT I THINK THAT HAS BEEN
THAT RESPECT.
THE CONTINUING LINE FROM THE
BUT I THINK THAT HAS BEEN
REPUBLICANS.
THE CONTINUING LINE FROM THE
AN THEY'VE GOT TO COME UP
REPUBLICANS.
WITH A SENSE OF GOVERNING
AN THEY'VE GOT TO COME UP
AND HOW THEY WOULD GOV EARN.
WITH A SENSE OF GOVERNING
>> THERE ARE LESSONS HERE
AND HOW THEY WOULD GOV EARN.
FOR ALL OF US.
>> THERE ARE LESSONS HERE
IT'S THE END OF OUR TIME AT
FOR ALL OF US.
THE END OF THIS YEAR.
IT'S THE END OF OUR TIME AT
AND WE WISH YOU BOTH A HAPPY
THE END OF THIS YEAR.
NEW YEAR, MARK SHIELDS,
AND WE WISH YOU BOTH A HAPPY
MICHAEL GERSON, THANK YOU.
NEW YEAR, MARK SHIELDS,
>> HAPPY NEW YEAR, THANK
MICHAEL GERSON, THANK YOU.
YOU.
>> HAPPY NEW YEAR, THANK
>> THANK YOU
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
DIFFERENT KIND OF A LOOK AT
AFRICA THROUGH SONG.
JEFFREY BROWN TALKS WITH ONE OF
THE CONTINENT'S BIGGEST STARS.
.
>> Brown: BORN IN THE WEST
AFRICAN NATION OF MALI,
DAUGHTER OF A DIPLOMAT
POSTED AROUND THE WORLD,
ROKIA TRAORE AND HER MUSIC
ARE AFRICAN AND WESTERN
INFLUENCES AND LANGUAGES.
.
>> Brown: MUSICAL CAREER
TOOK OFF IN THE 1990s.
.
>> Brown: SHE LATE ERR MOVED
BACK PERMANENTLY TO MALI'S
CAPITOL WHERE SHE'S LIVED
THROUGH THE TROUBLED RECENT
TIMES FOR HER COUNTRY,
INCLUDING AN ISLAMIST
INSURGENCY THAT FOR A TIME
LEAD TO THE BURNING OF
PRECIOUS MANUFACTURE YOU
SCRIPTS AND BOOKS AND
BANNING OF MUSIC IN PARTS OF
THE NORTH.
TRAORE NEW ALBUM
ADDRESSES THE PROBLEMS OF
MALI AND THE CONTINENT BUT
ALSO AS ITS TITLE, BEAUTIFUL
AFRICA SUGGESTS, MUCH MORE.
WE TALKED RECENTLY IN
WASHINGTON AND I ASKED HER
FIRST HOW SHE DESCRIBES HER
MUSIC.
>> I WOULD DESCRIBE MY MUSIC
AS MALLIAN-- MUSIC, A MIX OF
A PROFOUND MALLIAN CULTURE
IN WHICH MY MUSIC AND YES,
MY PERSONALITY IS ROOTED AND
ALSO OPENED TO ALL MY
INFLUENCES.
I HAD DURING MY TRAVELS WHEN
I WAS A CHILD.
>> Brown: SO A MIX OF
TRADITIONAL MALIAN MUSIC AND
ALL THAT YOU HAVE
EXPERIENCED SINCE?
>> A MIX.
AND A MIX BUT A NATURAL MIX.
BECAUSE I DON'T TRY TO MIX
THINGS BECAUSE I WANT TO
MAKE A MIX, BUT I AM THE
MIX.
>> Brown: ARE YOU THE MIX.
THIS IS YOU, WHO YOU ARE.
>> AND I SIMPLY HAVE TO DO
THINGS THE MOST NATURAL AND
YES, VERY NATURALLY.
AND IT GIVES WHAT MY MUSIC
IS.
AND ANYTHING I DO IN MY
EVERY DAY LIFE IS ALSO THIS
MIX.
AND I FEEL GOOD WITH THIS
I FEEL GOOD HAVING DIFFERENT
MIX.
CULTURES AROUND ME.
I FEEL GOOD HAVING DIFFERENT
MY BAND IS MADE FROM PEOPLE
CULTURES AROUND ME.
COMING FROM ITALY WHO STAY
MY BAND IS MADE FROM PEOPLE
IN U.K. AND MALIANS AND
COMING FROM ITALY WHO STAY
FRENCH PEOPLE.
IN U.K. AND MALIANS AND
AND I LIKE THAT.
FRENCH PEOPLE.
WE SPEAK SEVERAL LANGUAGES
AND I LIKE THAT.
AND WE GO FROM ONE LANGUAGE
WE SPEAK SEVERAL LANGUAGES
TO ANOTHER ONE.
AND WE GO FROM ONE LANGUAGE
AND MY LIFE IS LIKE THAT,
TO ANOTHER ONE.
AND I LIKE THAT.
AND MY LIFE IS LIKE THAT,
>> Brown: IN THIS NEW ALBUM
AND I LIKE THAT.
YOU SEEM VERY CONCERNED TO
>> Brown: IN THIS NEW ALBUM
SING ABOUT AFRICA, ITS
YOU SEEM VERY CONCERNED TO
PROBLEMS AND ITS BEAUTY.
SING ABOUT AFRICA, ITS
WHY DO YOU -- WHY DOW WANT
PROBLEMS AND ITS BEAUTY.
TO SING OF THAT.
WHY DO YOU -- WHY DOW WANT
>> SING BEING AFRICA IS LIKE
TO SING OF THAT.
SINGING ABOUT MYSELF.
>> SING BEING AFRICA IS LIKE
>> Brown: LIKE SING BEING
SINGING ABOUT MYSELF.
YOURSELF.
>> Brown: LIKE SING BEING
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOURSELF.
IT'S LIKE SINGING ABOUT MY
>> ABSOLUTELY.
STORY.
IT'S LIKE SINGING ABOUT MY
IT IS HOW MY, MI RELATED TO
STORY.
THIS COUNTRYMEN MORE THAN
IT IS HOW MY, MI RELATED TO
WHAT YOUR PEOPLE CAN THINK
THIS COUNTRYMEN MORE THAN
AROUND ME BECAUSE EVENTUALLY
WHAT YOUR PEOPLE CAN THINK
THE WAY I GREW UP, I AM
AROUND ME BECAUSE EVENTUALLY
ALWAYS CONSIDERED LIKE FROM
THE WAY I GREW UP, I AM
ONE I AM A NUT WHICH AM, IN
ALWAYS CONSIDERED LIKE FROM
AFRICA, TOO MUCH EUROPEAN
ONE I AM A NUT WHICH AM, IN
AND EUROPE STILL AFRICAN.
AFRICA, TOO MUCH EUROPEAN
>> Brown: YOU ALWAYS COUNTED
AND EUROPE STILL AFRICAN.
YOURSELF SORT OF AN
>> Brown: YOU ALWAYS COUNTED
OUTSIDER.
YOURSELF SORT OF AN
>> NOT JUST A FEELING BUT IT
OUTSIDER.
IS SOMETHING REAL, YES, THIS
>> NOT JUST A FEELING BUT IT
ALBUM DEFINITELY FOR ME IT'S
IS SOMETHING REAL, YES, THIS
A WAY TO TALK ABOUT MY
ALBUM DEFINITELY FOR ME IT'S
RELATIONSHIP WITH MALI W
A WAY TO TALK ABOUT MY
AFRICA.
RELATIONSHIP WITH MALI W
SO TO TALK ABOUT MYSELF.
AFRICA.
>> Brown: ON A NEWS PROGRAM
SO TO TALK ABOUT MYSELF.
LIKE OURS WE'RE ALWAYS, WHEN
>> Brown: ON A NEWS PROGRAM
WE LOOK AT AFRICA IT'S
LIKE OURS WE'RE ALWAYS, WHEN
USUALLY REPORTING ON THE BAD
WE LOOK AT AFRICA IT'S
THINGS, RIGHT.
USUALLY REPORTING ON THE BAD
THE WARS AND THE POVERTY.
THINGS, RIGHT.
YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN YOUR
THE WARS AND THE POVERTY.
SONGS, BUT YOU WANT US TO
YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN YOUR
KNOW THERE'S SOMETHING MORE.
SONGS, BUT YOU WANT US TO
>> SOMETHING -- SOME THINGS
KNOW THERE'S SOMETHING MORE.
PEOPLE SEE MORE THROUGH
>> SOMETHING -- SOME THINGS
MEDIA WHICH GIVE THEM A VERY
PEOPLE SEE MORE THROUGH
ANYTHING DIFFICULT IMAGE OF
MEDIA WHICH GIVE THEM A VERY
AFRICA.
ANYTHING DIFFICULT IMAGE OF
IS OTHER THINGS ARE EVERY
AFRICA.
DAY BUT ALSO SOME OF THE
IS OTHER THINGS ARE EVERY
THINGS WHICH ARE MORE GRB
DAY BUT ALSO SOME OF THE
KBRB-- I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
THINGS WHICH ARE MORE GRB
SAY, JUST A NORMAL LIFE.
KBRB-- I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
AND JOYFUL THINGS AND JUST
SAY, JUST A NORMAL LIFE.
GLAD TO BE IN AFRICA AND
AND JOYFUL THINGS AND JUST
LIVING THERE.
GLAD TO BE IN AFRICA AND
AND-- WHEN YOU SEE THROUGH
LIVING THERE.
AFRICA THROUGH OTHER
AND-- WHEN YOU SEE THROUGH
COUNTRY'S MEDIAS IT IS WHERE
AFRICA THROUGH OTHER
A COUNTRY WHERE EVERYBODY
COUNTRY'S MEDIAS IT IS WHERE
WANT TO GO OUT AND NOBODY
A COUNTRY WHERE EVERYBODY
WANT TO STAY THERE,
WANT TO GO OUT AND NOBODY
AFRICANS.
WANT TO STAY THERE,
>> Brown: YOU DONE RECOGNIZE
AFRICANS.
THAT AFRICA.
>> Brown: YOU DONE RECOGNIZE
>> NO, BECAUSE IT'S NOT MY
THAT AFRICA.
CASE.
>> NO, BECAUSE IT'S NOT MY
>> Brown: I WANT TO ASK YOU
CASE.
ABOUT ONE PARTICULAR SONG,
>> Brown: I WANT TO ASK YOU
IT'S SARAMA BECAUSE IT IS A
ABOUT ONE PARTICULAR SONG,
TRIBUTE TO WOMEN IN AFRICA.
IT'S SARAMA BECAUSE IT IS A
AND YOU SING ANYTHING GOOD I
TRIBUTE TO WOMEN IN AFRICA.
CAN DO I WANT IT TO BE A
AND YOU SING ANYTHING GOOD I
TRIBUTE TO YOU, SPEAKING OF
CAN DO I WANT IT TO BE A
WOMEN IN MALI
TRIBUTE TO YOU, SPEAKING OF
I MISS YOUR SMILE
WOMEN IN MALI
ANYTHING GOOD I CAN DO
I MISS YOUR SMILE
I WANT IT TO BE A TRIBUTE
ANYTHING GOOD I CAN DO
TO YOU
I WANT IT TO BE A TRIBUTE
.
TO YOU
>> I'M AMAZED BY THE WAY
.
THEY ARE.
>> I'M AMAZED BY THE WAY
AND THE WAY THEY FACE THEIR
THEY ARE.
EVERY DAY LIFE.
AND THE WAY THEY FACE THEIR
THEY DON'T SEE THEMSELVES AS
EVERY DAY LIFE.
VICTIMS.
THEY DON'T SEE THEMSELVES AS
AN AFRICAN WOMAN OR A MALIAN
VICTIMS.
WOMAN OR IN MY VILLAGE, WILL
AN AFRICAN WOMAN OR A MALIAN
NEVER TELL ME, COMPLAIN,
WOMAN OR IN MY VILLAGE, WILL
LET'S SAY, WILL NEVER
NEVER TELL ME, COMPLAIN,
COMPLAIN ABOUT HER EVERY DAY
LET'S SAY, WILL NEVER
LIFE.
COMPLAIN ABOUT HER EVERY DAY
SHE SMILES AND FOR HER IT IS
LIFE.
JUST HER LIFE.
SHE SMILES AND FOR HER IT IS
AND I ADMIRE THIS FACT.
JUST HER LIFE.
AND IT'S A FACE OF
AND I ADMIRE THIS FACT.
INSPIRATION FOR ME REALLY.
AND IT'S A FACE OF
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU LOOK AT
INSPIRATION FOR ME REALLY.
WHAT'S GOING ON IN YOUR
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU LOOK AT
COUNTRY.
WHAT'S GOING ON IN YOUR
>> THE MOST COMPLICATED AND
COUNTRY.
THE VERY IMPORTANT QUESTION
>> THE MOST COMPLICATED AND
WE WERE WONDERING ABOUT WAS
THE VERY IMPORTANT QUESTION
WHEN WE WILL BE ABLE TO
WE WERE WONDERING ABOUT WAS
MANAGE THE SITUATION IN THE
WHEN WE WILL BE ABLE TO
COUNTRY AND IN GENERAL, AND
MANAGE THE SITUATION IN THE
I KNEW THAT AS EVERYTHING
COUNTRY AND IN GENERAL, AND
WILL BECOME NORMAL, MUSS
I KNEW THAT AS EVERYTHING
LICK START AGAIN AND NOW I
WILL BECOME NORMAL, MUSS
THINK THERE ARE MORE FILMS
LICK START AGAIN AND NOW I
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED IN MALI
THINK THERE ARE MORE FILMS
THAN THERE COULD BE IF THE
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED IN MALI
SITUATION DIDN'T HAPPEN.
THAN THERE COULD BE IF THE
>> Brown: REALLY SO, ALL OF
SITUATION DIDN'T HAPPEN.
THAT HAS LEAD TO MORE MUSIC.
>> Brown: REALLY SO, ALL OF
>> MORE MUSIC OF COURSE,
THAT HAS LEAD TO MORE MUSIC.
MUSIC IS LIKE WHAT YOU THINK
>> MORE MUSIC OF COURSE,
AND WHAT YOU FILE IN YOUR
MUSIC IS LIKE WHAT YOU THINK
DEEP INSIDE, YOU DON'T FIND
AND WHAT YOU FILE IN YOUR
THE RIGHT WORDS TO SAY BUT
DEEP INSIDE, YOU DON'T FIND
YOU CAN PLAY IT AND YOU CAN
THE RIGHT WORDS TO SAY BUT
EXPRESS IT, EXPRESS IT IN AN
YOU CAN PLAY IT AND YOU CAN
ARTISTICAL WAY.
EXPRESS IT, EXPRESS IT IN AN
YOU CANNOT STOP THAT IN THE
ARTISTICAL WAY.
WHOLE COUNTRY AND IN A
YOU CANNOT STOP THAT IN THE
COUNTRY LIKE MALI.
WHOLE COUNTRY AND IN A
>> Brown: OKAY.
COUNTRY LIKE MALI.
YOUR NEW ALBUM IS BEAUTIFUL
>> Brown: OKAY.
AFRICA, ROCKIO TRAORE, THANK
YOUR NEW ALBUM IS BEAUTIFUL
YOU SO MUCH.
AFRICA, ROCKIO TRAORE, THANK
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH ROKIA
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
TRAORE PERFORM TWO SONGS FROM
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH ROKIA
HER LATEST ALBUM.
TRAORE PERFORM TWO SONGS FROM
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
HER LATEST ALBUM.
OF THE DAY:
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
TARGET ANNOUNCED HACKERS STOLE
OF THE DAY:
ENCRYPTED PIN NUMBERS DURING A
TARGET ANNOUNCED HACKERS STOLE
MAJOR DATA BREACH, BUT IT SAID
ENCRYPTED PIN NUMBERS DURING A
IT DOUBTS THE NUMBERS CAN BE
MAJOR DATA BREACH, BUT IT SAID
DECODED.
IT DOUBTS THE NUMBERS CAN BE
AND A FEDERAL JUDGE IN NEW YORK
DECODED.
RULED THE SWEEPING COLLECTION OF
AND A FEDERAL JUDGE IN NEW YORK
PHONE RECORDS BY THE NATIONAL
RULED THE SWEEPING COLLECTION OF
SECURITY AGENCY IS LEGAL.
PHONE RECORDS BY THE NATIONAL
EARLIER THIS MONTH, ANOTHER
SECURITY AGENCY IS LEGAL.
JUDGE FOUND THE PROGRAM IS
EARLIER THIS MONTH, ANOTHER
PROBABLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
JUDGE FOUND THE PROGRAM IS
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" ONLINE RIGHT
PROBABLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
NOW, WE LOOK BACK AT SOME OF OUR
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" ONLINE RIGHT
FAVORITE CULTURAL REPORTING FROM
NOW, WE LOOK BACK AT SOME OF OUR
2013.
FAVORITE CULTURAL REPORTING FROM
FILMMAKERS BROUGHT THEIR STORIES
2013.
TO US
FILMMAKERS BROUGHT THEIR STORIES
REVISIT OUR CONVERSATIONS WITH
TO US
THE DIRECTORS OF OSCAR-NOMINATED
REVISIT OUR CONVERSATIONS WITH
DOCUMENTARIES AND OTHER TALENTS
THE DIRECTORS OF OSCAR-NOMINATED
LIKE DOLLY PARTON AND TREY
DOCUMENTARIES AND OTHER TALENTS
ANASTASIO.
LIKE DOLLY PARTON AND TREY
FIND THOSE ON ART BEAT.
ANASTASIO.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
FIND THOSE ON ART BEAT.
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
LATER THIS EVENING.
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
LATER THIS EVENING.
>> TONIGHT WE HAVE A SPECIAL
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
HOLIDAY PROGRAM FOR YOU AS
>> TONIGHT WE HAVE A SPECIAL
THE REPORTERS WHO COVER AND
HOLIDAY PROGRAM FOR YOU AS
EXPLAIN WASHINGTON OFFER
THE REPORTERS WHO COVER AND
THEIR INSIGHT NOOTION THE
EXPLAIN WASHINGTON OFFER
STORIES THAT SHAPED 2013.
THEIR INSIGHT NOOTION THE
YOU WANT TO HEAR WHAT THEY
STORIES THAT SHAPED 2013.
HAVE TO SAY, TONIGHT ON
YOU WANT TO HEAR WHAT THEY
WASHINGTON WEEK.
HAVE TO SAY, TONIGHT ON
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
WASHINGTON WEEK.
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR" WEEKEND:
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
A REPORT FROM ONE NEW ORLEANS
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR" WEEKEND:
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS STILL
A REPORT FROM ONE NEW ORLEANS
STRUGGLING TO REBUILD, MORE THAN
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS STILL
EIGHT YEARS AFTER HURRICANE
STRUGGLING TO REBUILD, MORE THAN
KATRINA.
EIGHT YEARS AFTER HURRICANE
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
KATRINA.
ON MONDAY WITH AUTHOR AND
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
JOURNALIST DAVID IGNATIUS ON
ON MONDAY WITH AUTHOR AND
HIS RECENT TRIP TO IRAN.
JOURNALIST DAVID IGNATIUS ON
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
HIS RECENT TRIP TO IRAN.
TONIGHT.
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
TONIGHT.
HAVE A GREAT END OF THE YEAR
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WEEKEND.
HAVE A GREAT END OF THE YEAR
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.